# Node.js GitHub API Service

This is a Node.js service that utilizes GitHub APIs to allow users to query GitHub repositories by name. The service acts as middleware, passing through responses from GitHub to achieve the goal. It provides various information about the repositories. Additionally, users can request the readme file for a specific project if it is available.

Best practices and type safety are incorporated into the application. For API functionality, it uses Node.js frameworks like Express. The service is built to effectively manage several concurrent requests.

## Table of Contents
- [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)
- [Running Tests](#running-tests)
- [Tools and Libraries](#tools-and-libraries)
- [Requests](#requests)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)

## Installation and Setup

1. Open the terminal and clone the repository: `https://github.com/ArshiaSaleem98/git-connect-with-node.git`

2. Navigate to the project directory and Install all the needed dependencies by using the command: `npm install`

3. Build the project and start the server with the command: `npm run dev`. The server will start running on `http://localhost:3000`.

4. Access the API documentation: Open your browser and visit http://localhost:3000/api-docs to view the Swagger documentation.

## Running Tests

To run the tests for this project, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the project directory.

2. Run the following command to execute the tests: `npm run test`

This command will trigger the test runner using Jest, a JavaScript testing framework.

3. Jest will run all the tests in the project, including tests for containers, utility functions, and API interactions.

    - The test results will be displayed in the terminal or command prompt, indicating whether the tests passed or failed.
    - Any failed tests will provide detailed information about the failures, including the specific test case and the expected versus actual results.
    - If all tests pass, you will see a success message indicating that all tests have passed.

## Tools and Libraries

This project utilizes the following tools and libraries:

- `Node.js`: A JavaScript runtime that allows running JavaScript on the server side.
- `Express`: A fast and minimalist web application framework for Node.js used to build the API endpoints.
- `Jest`: A JavaScript testing framework used for writing unit tests and running the test suite.
- `Swagger UI`: A user interface for visualizing and interacting with the API documentation generated by Swagger.
- `ESLint`: A pluggable linting utility for JavaScript and TypeScript used to enforce coding style and best practices.
- `Prettier`: An opinionated code formatter used to maintain consistent code formatting across the project.
- `Husky`: A tool used to set up Git hooks, allowing for automated actions such as pre-commit or pre-push checks.
- `GitHub API`: The GitHub REST API is utilized to fetch repository information, including details, forks, and issues.
  
## Requests

- ### Search Repositories by name:

This request allows users to search for repositories based on a specific search query. Pagination is available, with the ability to customize the page number and the number of results per page.

  1.  #### Request:

     GET /repositories?name={searchQuery}&page={pageNumber}&perPage={resultsPerPage}

  2. #### Parameters:

     - `searchQuery`: Replace this parameter with the desired search term.
     - `pageNumber` (optional): Replace this parameter with the page number of the results. If not provided, it defaults to the first page.
     - `resultsPerPage` (optional): Replace this parameter with the number of results per page. If not provided, it defaults to 10.
       
  3. #### Url examples:

  Retrieve the first page of results with the default 10 results per page:

    GET /repositories?name=example
    
  Retrieve the second page of results with 20 results per page:
       
    GET /repositories?name=example&page=2&perPage=20

- ### Repository Details by Id

Retrieve detailed information about a repository with the provided ID. This request provides comprehensive information about a repository, including its open issues, number of forks, and other relevant details.

  1.  #### Request:

    GET /repositoryDetails?id={repositoryId}

  2. #### Parameters:

     - `repositoryId`: Replace this parameter with the ID of the desired repository.
       
  3. #### Url example:

    GET /repositoryDetails?id=123456

- ### Get Readme by ID

Retrieve the readme file for a specific repository. This request allows clients to retrieve the readme file associated with a repository if it is available.

  1.  #### Request:

    GET /getreadme?id={repositoryId}

  2. #### Parameters:

     - `repositoryId`: Replace this parameter with the ID of the desired repository.
       
  3. #### Url example:

    GET /getreadme?id=123456

## Project Structure

The project follows an organized structure to enhance maintainability and clarity. Here's the structure:

```
├ src/
    ├─ constants/        => Contains files with constants used throughout the application.
    ├─ controllers/      => Handles the logic for different API endpoints.
    ├─ models/           => Defines the models or data structures used in the application.
    ├─ routes/           => Defines the API routes and their corresponding handlers.
    ├─ utils/            => Contains utility functions or helper modules.
    ├─ index.ts          => The entry point of the application.
├ swagger/              => Contains the Swagger documentation file.
├ tests/                => Contains the test files for the application.
├ .eslintrc.json        => Configuration file for ESLint, a JavaScript linter.
├ .gitignore            => Specifies files and directories to be ignored by Git version control.
├ .huskyrc              => Configuration file for Husky, a tool to set up Git hooks.
├ .prettierrc           => Configuration file for Prettier, a code formatter.
├ jest.config.ts        => Configuration file for Jest, a JavaScript testing framework.
├ package.json          => The package configuration file with dependencies and scripts.
└ tsconfig.json         => Configuration file for TypeScript compiler options.
```

## Thank You for Exploring!

Thank you for taking the time to explore this project. I hope the information provided has given you a clear understanding of its features, functionality, and structure. If you have any questions, feedback, or suggestions, please feel free to reach out.

Your interest and support are greatly appreciated!
